Let's put everything that we have learned so far together.
Imagine you were teaching an English class of 20 students.
They wrote a final exam and these are their grades:
The statistics below the graph should be familiar to you at this point.
It is common practice however,
to report mainly the mean and the standard deviation.
If we want, we could move the standard deviation
onto the graph itself for a more visual representation.
Let's begin first by marking the mean
onto the graph with a red line.
Now let's mark one standard deviation
above the mean with an orange line.
Five grades fall within this area as highlighted above.
When we plot one standard deviation below the mean,
we see 30% of the grades fall within this area.
The 6th grades are highlighted above.
And we can see when we plot two standard deviations
away from the mean,
all of the grades fall within this area.
But remember, data can be shaped and dispersed differently
so this won't be true of all reported data.
It just so happens to be true here.